# grunt-ksstest

> Automate visual CSS regression testing of KSS-generated styleguide components via PhantomCSS

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-ksstest --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-ksstest');
```

## The `ksstest` task

### Overview
This plugin creates visual diffs of elements generated by your [KSS styleguide](https://github.com/kneath/kss) to test UI components in isolation.

In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `ksstest` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  ksstest: {
    options: {
      screenshots: 'test/visual/screenshots/',
      results: 'test/visual/results/'
    },
    src: [
      'test/visual/elements.json'
    ]
  }
});
```

### Options

#### src
Type: `String|Array`

A JSON file that contains a list of the files and elements of your KSS styleguide you'd like to test. See example below.

#### options.screenshots
Type: `String`
Default: `'./screenshots'`

The screenshots directory where test fixtures (comparison screenshots) are stored. Baseline screenshots will be stored here on the first run if they're not present.

#### options.results
Type: `String`
Default: `'./results'`

The directory to store source, diff, and failure screenshots after tests.

#### options.logLevel
Type: `String`
Default: `error`

The CasperJS log level. See [CasperJS: Logging](http://casperjs.readthedocs.org/en/latest/logging.html) for details.


### Usage Examples

#### Basic visual tests
Run tests in `test/visual/` against comparison screenshots stored in `test/visual/screenshots/`, and put the resulting screenshots in `test/visual/results/`, using the elements listed in `test/visual/elements.json`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  phantomcss: {
    options: {
      screenshots: 'test/visual/screenshots/',
      results: 'test/visual/results/'
    },
    src: [
      'test/visual/elements.json'
    ]
  }
});
```

### Sample `elements.json`
The `elements.json` file should list all the components from you KSS styleguide you'd like to test.

```js
{
  "root": "/",
  "sections": [
    {
      "section": 1,
      "subsections": [
        {
          "subsection": 1,
          "elements": [
            {
              "tag": "a",
              "class": ".btn",
              "modifiers": [
                ".\\{\\$modifiers\\}",
                ":hover",
                ":active",
                ":disabled"
              ]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

## Release History

* 2013-10-24   v0.0.1   Fork from [grunt-phantomcss](https://github.com/chrisgladd/grunt-phantomcss) and initial Release.
